feat: Introduce new render API (#215)
seek-oss/sku: docs/static-rendering.md

# Static rendering

Client-side apps all suffer the same performance pitfall of not being able to show any content until the JavaScript is downloaded, parsed and run. The user sees a blank white screen until this has all occurred, which is often followed by a loading indicator while data is fetched from the network. To improve perceived performance, sku renders all the static content (everything not requiring an API call) of your app at build time.

## Configuration

The sku config contains route specific options.

```js
module.exports = {
  routes: [
    {
      route: '/',
      name: 'home',
      entry: 'src/Home.js' // Optional: falls back to entry.client
    },
    {
      route: '/details',
      name: 'details',
      entry: 'src/Details.js'
    }
  ],
  environments: ['development', 'production'],

>   sites: ['au', 'jobstreet'],

Reviewer: This may lead to confusion, having one code/locale and one brand. Maybe from a documentation perspective we go with `[ 'australia', 'asia' ]`

│   │   ├── index.html
│   │   ├── details
│   │   |   ├── index.html
├── [static-asset].{css,js,jpg,etc}
```

`environments`, `sites` & `routes` are all optional and will not show up in the build output if not specified.

Note: `sku start` will default to the first `environment` and `site` in your config if provided.

## Render entry

After configuring sku, the render entry needs to return the HTML required to create all the above files. The render entry is set via `entry.render` (default is `src/render.js`).

**Example render entry**

```js
import React from 'react';
import { renderToString } from 'react-dom/server';
import App from './App';

export default {
  renderApp: ({ environment, site, route }) =>
    renderToString(<App environment={environment} site={site} route={route} />),

  renderDocument: ({ app, bodyTags, headTags }) => `
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        <title>My Awesome Project</title>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
        ${headTags}
      </head>
      <body>
        <div id="app">${app}</div>
        ${bodyTags}
      </body>
    </html>
  `
};
```

## renderApp

> The `renderApp` function should return a your application as an HTML string (generally using `React.renderToString`). It can also return other values (eg. extracted meta information, css styles, etc). Anything returned will be available in `renderDocument`. You should not render your whole HTML document in `renderApp`, only return the HTML that is generated by React.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `renderApp` function should return your application as an HTML string (generally using `React.renderToString`). It can also return other values (e.g. extracted meta information, CSS styles, etc). Anything returned will be available in `renderDocument`. You should not render your whole HTML document in `renderApp`, only return the HTML that is generated by React.
```

- `app` - the value returned from the `renderApp` function
- `headTags` - html tags to be placed in the head of the html
- `bodyTags` - html tags to be placed at the end of the html body

## Common use cases

### TypeScript

If your app uses TypeScript, sku provides the type definitions for the render entry.

```ts
import React from 'react';
import { renderToString } from 'react-dom/server';
import { Render } from 'sku';
import App from './App';

interface RenderContext {
  html: string;
  otherThing: number;
}
const skuRender: Render<RenderContext> = {
  renderApp: () => ({
    html: renderToString(<App />),
    otherThing: 10
  }),

  renderDocument: ({ app, headTags, bodyTags }) => `
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8">
        <title>My Awesome Project</title>
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
        ${headTags}
      </head>
      <body>
        <div id="app">${app.html}</div>
        ${bodyTags}
      </body>
    </html>
  `
};

export default skuRender;
```

> ### React helmet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### React Helmet
```

> React helmet requires extra work after React render to extract static meta information. This is also a common pattern used by some other libraries (eg. [react-loadable](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/react-loadable), [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/ssr)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
React Helmet requires extra work after React is finished rendering to extract static meta information. This is also a common pattern used by some other libraries (e.g. [react-loadable](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/react-loadable), [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/ssr)).
```

> React Helmet requires extra work after React is finished rendering to extract static meta information. This is also a common pattern used by some other libraries (e.g. [react-loadable](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/react-loadable), [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/ssr)).

Reviewer: Be good to turn "React Helmet" into a link here as we've done with loadable and emotion

```js
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/server';
import Helmet from 'react-helmet';
import App from './App/App';

const renderApp = () => {
  const appHtml = ReactDOM.renderToString(<App />);
  const helmet = Helmet.renderStatic();

  const htmlAttributes = helmet.htmlAttributes.toString();
  const bodyAttributes = helmet.bodyAttributes.toString();
  const metaStrings = [
    helmet.title.toString(),
    helmet.meta.toString(),
    helmet.link.toString()
  ];
  const metaHtml = metaStrings.filter(Boolean).join('\n    ');

  return {
    appHtml,
    metaHtml,
    htmlAttributes,
    bodyAttributes
  };
};

const renderDocument = ({ app, bodyTags, headTags }) => `
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html${app.htmlAttributes ? ` ${app.htmlAttributes}` : ''}>
    <head>
      ${app.metaHtml}
      <meta charset="UTF-8">
      <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
      ${headTags}
    </head>
    <body${app.bodyAttributes ? ` ${app.bodyAttributes}` : ''}>
      <div id="app">${app.appHtml}</div>
      ${bodyTags}
    </body>
  </html>
`;

export default {
  renderApp,
  renderDocument
};
```

### Dynamic routes

> Apps using params in their path (eg. `/job/[12345]`) are supported as well. sku represents these params using the standard `/job/:id` convention, where `:` marks this part of the path as dynamic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apps using params in their path (eg. `/job/[12345]`) are supported as well. These params are represented in sku using the standard `/job/:id` convention, where `:` marks this part of the path as dynamic.
```

```js
{
  routes: [
    {
      route: '/',
      name: 'home'
    },
    {
      route: '/job/:id',
      name: 'jobDetails'
    }
  ],
}
```

> When running `sku start`, requesting `/job/123` will return the rendered `jobDetails` html. Running `sku build` will output the following folder structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When running `sku start`, requesting `/job/123` will return the rendered `jobDetails` HTML. Running `sku build` will output the following folder structure.
```

```
├── index.html
├── job
│   ├── :id
│   │   ├── index.html
├── [static-asset].{css,js,jpg,etc}
```

**Warning**

> Although sku supports this behavior, your webserver must also be configured to serve the correct files. Due to this, some teams will choose to opt out of statically rendering these routes to reduce complexity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although sku supports this behaviour, your web server must also be configured to serve the correct files by routing dynamic paths to the appropriate static file for that route. Due to this, some teams will choose to opt out of statically rendering these routes to reduce complexity.
```
